Dev Diary 2 June 5 2021

Pre-Alpha - Versions 0.01 - 0.09

    Work on North America exclusively - done # pops are done too
    Core stability, tech, loc, politics, pops. - done 
    Make sure it doesn't crash when you declare wars. - done
    Early event chains and national intros. # still missing!
One of the issues with Victoria II's map is that it is incredibly outdated: states like California and Texas have huge provinces 
(as they were not as populated as in contemporary times), and Florida, the third most populous state, 
with an economy of over one trillion dollars nowadays, has a grand total of three provinces. For reference, Greenland has four.

So, I added two more provinces, splitting up the state between major metropolitan areas, and allowing for greater economic diversity. 
I plan to do this with other states and regions that could use a few more states, as well as re-balancing states and provinces along modern division lines.

Alpha - Version 0.10

    North American nations finished. # not done 
    All techs developed. # more or less true
    Localization and introduction events developed. # still missing! 
    Hopefully very few crashes by this point. # seems accurate

Version 0.20

    Latin American nations finished. #
    All inventions developed. # not true
    Basic political events developed. #

Version 0.30

    Western European nations finished. # *** West Europe settled?
    Economic system, resources, and industries fully developed. 
Dev Diary 4 July 2 2021
I want to keep is just as the base game: 48 goods, with a few caveats: timber and lumber are merged, 
oil now includes gas, cotton now involves all textile crops, cement has been replaced by construction materials, etc. 
At the same time, factories are more (and increasingly) dependent in white collar workers (e.g. clerks) 
and executives (e.g. capitalists) than in the Victorian era, and job loss and deindustrialisation will be an early economic issue to work with.

At the same time, resource discovery and exhaustion will be a key part of the mid-game: 
the discovery of new sources of oil, metals, and rare materials will be balanced 
with the depletion of existing reserves. Would you rather purchase resources and goods from 
the world market, or spend costly (and risky) endeavors to discover new resources under your lands? 
Is it worth it to shut down unprofitable mines, or to subsidize their exploitation of ever-dwindling resources?

Resource exploration is not limited just to the actual provinces; offshore resources will rise in prominence as the land-based deposits become exhausted and, 
in the far future, space and deep-mantle mining become more and more prevalent.

Likewise, arctic exploration begins as a research and prestige endeavor, but it can become a matter of colonization and military supremacy. 
For the far northern countries, it may even become a matter of survival.

Dev Diary 5 July 15 2021
I chose to develop the economic model, at first, around Neoclassical economics and the New Neoclassical Synthesis, 
as these are the closest thing to an economic consensus in the present day, the one most players are likely familiarized with, 
and the most relevant one for the first region in the game, North America. Over time, as countries get added and the political system gets developed, I will add more economic paths and effects.

Dev Diary 7 Sep 13 2021
In conjunction with this, military brigades now require small arms to be created, and ammunition to keep them supplied. 
Over time, there will be more types of weapons and supplies added, especially for bigger (and more advanced) brigades, and I will expand more into this on its own dev diary once implemented.


Dev Diary 8 Oct 18 2021
While their chief effect is in research policy, these [research schools] ultimately also affect the nation as a whole through events and 
opportunities that may be available (or unavailable) for certain schools.

Version 0.40

    East European nations finished.
    Supranational unions (for the respective nations) for the respective regions. # moved up b/c of Canada formation events 

Version 0.50

    Middle Eastern nations finished.
    Supranational organizations (e.g. the UN), and shadow groups (e.g. the Club of Rome) for the respective regions.

Version 0.60

    Sub-Saharan African nations finished.
    Continental unions for the respective regions.

Version 0.70

    South Asian nations finished.
    Global unions and events finished.

Version 0.80

    East Asian nations finished.
    News for all relevant events.

Version 0.90

    Pacific nations finished.

Beta - Version 1.00

    All countries present.
    All content in place until year 2100.
    Game is stable enough to run until 2100 with minimal issues.

Version 2.00 #1980-2200 is 220 years...

    Content until year 2200
        New techs, inventions, countries, events, for the next 100 years.
        Dilation of the timeline and rebalancement (e.g. exotic weapons getting researched in the 22nd Century).
