Blaskowicz Jul 15 2021
He had less to work with, and was in a more challenging environment. The US didn't start to crack until the 60s, 
and the dissolution of the Union was in the late 70s, but the more aggressive and unstable early Cold War did get the ball rolling. 

Dev Diary 1 May 26 2021
The mod is set in an alternate timeline, set between 1980 and 2100. Franklin Delano Roosevelt dies on December 1944, 
which leads to a more aggressive early Cold War, the use of tactical nuclear weapons, widespread riots and revolts in the 60s, 
culminating in a vastly different world by the start of the game in 1980.

I try to stay close to the original gameplay and flavor of Victoria II, rather than the more realistic and complex approaches of similar Victoria mods, 
such as NWO and CWE. Similar to the base game, the game goes through social, political and economic revolutions, albeit at a faster and more dramatic pace.

The name of the mod is a portmanteau of Victoria and -topia (Greek suffix for place, but in this case, referencing both Utopia and Dystopia). 
It will be possible to lead nations into totalitarian techno-dystopias, environmental continental communes, laissez-faire mega-corporation paradises, 
engaged pluralistic democracies, and pretty much every conceivable system. The world of Brave New World is just as possible an outcome as Nineteen-Eighty-Four, 
as is the world of Neuromancer, or Gattaca.

The mod also possesses a narrative of sorts: having nation-states duke it out for supremacy in a grand strategy simulator is fun, 
but having specific entities pursuing specific goals, sometimes openly, sometimes covertly, adds to the world and the goals. 
A chaotic world is fertile ground for power-hungry individuals, organizations, and cabals, seeking local and global power. 
From the United Nations to the Bilderberg Group, from the Club of Rome to the Fifth International, transnational groups will have an effect on the world, 
sometimes openly, sometimes covertly. They may aid or hinder the player, depending on their goals and, if ambitious enough, 
could take direct control of nations. Perhaps we should line our thinking caps with tinfoil, just in case.

Technology plays a central role as well: not only it improves your nation, but it opens up new dilemmas and problems. 
Mass media is great, but it's easy to manipulate by domestic and foreign factors (and, perhaps, yourself). The Internet gives 
people the capacity to work remotely and access nearly limitless information, but it makes you vulnerable to cyberattacks. 

Nanomachines bring forth a medical and industrial revolution, at least until a madman unleashes a grey goo flood on the world. 
Perhaps we shouldn't dabble into exotic matter too much, lest we ignite the atmosphere.

Ultimately, the vision that I have for the mod is a balance of fun and engaging gameplay, with interesting world political, 
social, economic and technological development and challenges over time, within a realistic plausible path.

Dev Diary 3 June 13 2021
It all starts with the sudden death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in December 1944 (as opposed to April 1945 in our timeline), in the middle of the Battle of the Bulge.

1944/1945

The news and political effects lead to a more successful push by the Axis and the fall of Antwerp, and stops the Allied attack until January. 
An emboldened Hitler then shifts troops from the Eastern front to the Western front, trying to push the advantage. 
The Germans end up getting encircled in Antwerp, and putting up less of a resistance to the Vistula-Oder offensive in February, 
and Berlin falls to the Soviets by March. The Soviets managed to push all the way to the Rhine by the end of the war.

At the same time, the Manhattan project is stalled by several months due to a Japanese fire balloon cutting the power off at the Hanford site and causing a meltdown (this actually almost happened.)

The Allies meet up to discuss the future of Europe, and it's patently clear that they will not reach an understanding. 
The Western Allies push for autonomy and territorial integrity of Poland, and a neutral Germany. 
The Soviets are increasingly concerned by post-war isolation and demand to extend their sphere of influence throughout the occupied lands, all the way to the Rhine. 
They agree with a partition of Germany, but they're not quite sure where to draw the lines.

In order to weaken the Western Allies and use as potential negotiation leverage for Europe, Stalin negotiates with Japan: 
Manchuria, in exchange for military aid and Soviet intercession in negotiations. The USSR invades a suspiciously-undefended Manchuria, 
as the Japanese prepare to fight in the Home Isles, recalling the Kwantung Army.

In June, Truman, Churchill, and de Gaulle sign the West Bonn Declaration, 
which demands democracy, self-determination and freedom for "the people of Europe from any totalitarian regime." 
which ends any potential negotiation, and the occupation lines remain the de facto borders of Europe for the foreseeable future.

Germany is split into three by the Soviets: North, South, and East Germany. The land west of the Rhine is 
initially occupied and administered by France. The borders of Poland are shifted westward, 
to the Oder-Neisse line (AS OTL), and the Soviet Union annexes Königsberg. The Allies protest, but they have no resources or willingness to openly contest the Soviets at this time.

With the center of gravity in the Pacific, Dutch Indonesia was reinforced, and French Indochina was invaded, in preparation for an invasion of Japan.

Operation Downfall, the invasion of Japan, takes place in October 1945, and opens one of the bloodiest chapters of the Second World War, (MASS DEATH IN JAPAN)
with millions of casualties on either side. There are reports of some Soviet equipment in the hands of the Japanese armed forces.

1946

In January, the Republic of Mahabad, the Azerbaijan's People's Government, and the Soviet Socialist Republic of Iran, are established in northern Iran. (AS OTL)
Austria is divided along occupation zones into East and West Austria.

In March, both the Greek and Chinese Civil Wars reignite, with both sides covertly aided by their ideological counterparts. 
Winston Churchill claims that an "Iron Curtain" has descended across Europe. (AS OTL)

Tokyo falls in August, and the articles of surrender are signed on September 2nd, putting an end to the Second World War. 
But with increased Soviet hostility and mutual paranoia, some fear the third one is right around the corner.

# See Alaska lore